# Proximity-sensor-for-collision-avoidance
Now a days road accident has become very common.  Because of the growing population, vehicle accidents are  increasing at a rapid rate. As more people use automobiles for  transportation there is a greater rush on the roads which leads to  more accidents. And the main reason for the accidents is People pay no attention to traffic laws and drive recklessly on the  roadways. Until now there are many research are happening to  modify the vehicles with the smart systems and devices to avoid  accidents. But now only high-cost vehicles are available in  market with collision avoidance and accident alert system. So,  an ordinary person can’t afford those vehicles due to the cost. In  this research we are trying to design a device which can be able  to detect forward collisions and give warning, able to detect line  departure in roads, maintain the speed limit by analyzing the  signal posts in the road and avoid collisions with the pedestrians  by using AI and ML algorithms and it can be connected to any  vehicles. For this device a proximity sensor with high refreshing  rate and long detection range is needed. Proximity sensors plays  main role to detect the nearby objects. Proximity sensor can be able to sense the nearby objects without any physical contact by  emitting electromagnetic field or electromagnetic radiations. For  the initial step in this research, we proposed some methods to  sense the collisions and detect the distance depending on the  purpose and need of application. 
